---
autogenerated:
title: Multi Access Broadcast Channel
firstpage:
---

# Multi Access Broadcast Channel



This environment is part of the <a href='..'>Classic environments</a>. Please read that page first for general information.

|   |   |
|---|---|
| Possible Agents | ('0', '1') |
| Action Spaces | {'0': Discrete(2), '1': Discrete(2)} |
| Observation Spaces | {'0': Discrete(2), '1': Discrete(2)} |
| Symmetric | True |
| Import | `posggym.make("MultiAccessBroadcastChannel-v0")` |


The Multi-Access Broadcast Channel Environment.

A cooperative game involving control of a multi-access broadcast channel.
In this problem, each agent controls a node in a network. Each node needs to
broadcast messages to each other over a shared channel, with only one node able to
broadcast at a time. If more than one node broadcasts at the same time then there
is a collision and no message is broadcast. The nodes share the common goal of
maximizing the throughput of the channel.

Possible Agents
---------------
The environment supports two or more agents, although the default version only
supports two agents. All agents are always active in the environment.

State Space
-----------
Each node has a message buffer that can store up to one message at a time.
That is it can be either `EMPTY=0` or `FULL=1`.

Action Space
------------
At each timestep each agent can either `SEND=0` a message or not `NOSEND=1`.

Observation Space
-----------------
At the end of each time step, each node receives a noisy observation of
whether there was a `COLLISION=0` or `NOCOLLISION=1`.

Each agent observes the true outcome with probability `obs_prob`, which is
0.9 in the default version.

Rewards
-------
Each agent receives a reward of `1` when a message is successfully
broadcast and a reward of `0` otherwise.

Dynamics
--------
If a node's buffer is EMPTY then at each step it will become full with
probability `fill_probs[i]`,  otherwise it will remain empty (independent
of the action performed). Where `i` is the agent ID. By default
`fill_probs` for node 0 is 0.9, and for node 1 is 0.1 (as per the paper).

If a node's buffer is `FULL` and the node does not send a message - i.e. uses the
`NOSEND` action - then the buffer remains `FULL`. Otherwise - i.e. the agent chooses
the `SEND` action - if no other nodes sends a message (there is no COLLISION) the
buffer will be FULL with probability `fill_probs[i]`, otherwise it will be empty.
If another message was sent at the same time by another node then there will be a
COLLISION and the node's buffer remains `FULL`.

Starting State
--------------
Each node buffer starts as `FULL` with probability `init_buffer_dist[i]` (which is
`1.0` by default), otherwise the buffer starts as `EMPTY`.

Episode End
-----------
By default episodes continue infinitely long. To set a step limit, specify
`max_episode_steps` when initializing the environment with `posggym.make`.

Arguments
---------

- `num_nodes` - the number of nodes (i.e. agents) in the network (default=`2.0`)
- `fill_probs` - the probability each nodes buffer is filled, should be a tuple with
    an entry for each node (default = `None` = `(0.9, 0.1)`)
- `observation_prob` - the probability of correctly observing if there was a
    collision or not (default = `0.9`)
- `init_buffer_dist` - the probability each node starts with a full buffer. Should
    be a tuple with an entry for each node (default = `None` = `(1.0, 1.0)`)

Version History
---------------
- `v0`: Initial version

References
----------
- Ooi, J. M., and Wornell, G. W. 1996. Decentralized control of a multiple
  access broadcast channel: Performance bounds. In Proceedings of the 35th
  Conference on Decision and Control, 293–298.
- Hansen, Eric A., Daniel S. Bernstein, and Shlomo Zilberstein. “Dynamic
  Programming for Partially Observable Stochastic Games.” In Proceedings of
  the 19th National Conference on Artificial Intelligence, 709–715. AAAI’04.
  San Jose, California: AAAI Press, 2004.
